Modules/Networking & Network Security Fundamentals - Intro to Networking.md, before:

# Intro to Networking

1. Topics/Sub-Topics
- Types of Networks
  - LAN's
  - WAN's
  - SAN's
  - VPN's
  - VLAN's
  How do we explain these networks?
- Topologies
  - Network Topologies
    - Bus
    - Star
    - Ring 
    - Mesh
  - Physical and Logical
  - Network Diagram Program example
- Network Devices
  - NICS
  - Modem
  - Switch
  - Wireless Access Point (AP)
  - Router
  - Firewall
  - DHCP Server - Might have exercise associated 
  - IDS/IPS 
  - DNS Server - Explain how a domain name service works 
  - Proxy Server
- Cables and Connections
  - Coaxial, fiber, wireless
  - Crossover vs. Staright-through
  - How to make cables 
  - Transmission speeds, duplex, distance, noise (pg. 75)
- Packet tracer Demonstration
  - https://www.netacad.com/campaign/ptdt-4
- Ethernet Basics
- OSI Model
- Packets
  - Inroduce Wireshark
  - Talk about whats in a packet
  - Crafting our own packets
  
Activities
- Show network mapping tool
- Cable demonstration
- Download Packet Tracer and build a simple network
- Talk about wireshark

Commit message:

updated with some new material

Modules/Networking & Network Security Fundamentals - Intro to Networking.md, after:

# Intro to Networking

1. Topics/Sub-Topics
- Types of Networks
  - LAN's
    - A network that provides access to users and end devices in a small geographical area (home, small business)
    - High speed bandwidth 
  - WAN's
    - Wide Geographical Area like between cities, states, countries or continents
    - typically owned and managed by a telecommunications service provider
    - Slower speeds
    - Administered by multiple service providers
  - MAN's
    - Larger than a LAN but smaller than a WAN
  - WLAN's
    - Wirelessly interconnects users and and points in a small geographical environment
  - VPN's
  - VLAN's
- Connection Options
  - Dedicated Leased Line
    - reserved circuits within service providers network that connect geographically seperated offices for private voice and/or data networking 
  - Ethernet WAN
    - Extend LAN access technology into the WAN 
  - 4 Things networks need: Fault Tolerance, Scalability, Quality of Service, Security 
  
 
- Topologies
  - Network Topologies
    - Bus
    - Star
    - Ring 
    - Mesh
  - Physical and Logical
    - Physical topology diagrams - Identify the physical location of intermediary devices and cable installation.
    - Logical topology diagrams - Identify devices, ports, and addressing scheme. 
  - Network Diagram Program example
- Two main network types 
  - Client Server
    - Clients are computers with software installed that enable them to request and display the information obtained from the server
  - Servers are computers with software that enable them to provide information, like email or web pages, to other end devices on the network. Each service requires separate server software.
  -Peer-to-Peer
    - Computers connected do not have any central or special authority they are all peers
    - Scalability, security 
    - Client and server software usually runs on separate computers, but it is also possible for one computer to carry out both roles at the same time. In small businesses and homes, many computers function as the servers and clients on the network.
- Network Devices
  - NICS
  - Modem
  - Switch
  - Wireless Access Point (AP)
  - Router
  - Firewall
  - DHCP Server - Might have exercise associated 
  - IDS/IPS 
  - DNS Server - Explain how a domain name service works 
  - Proxy Server
- Cables and Connections
  - Coaxial, fiber, wireless
  - Crossover vs. Staright-through
  - How to make cables 
  - Transmission speeds, duplex, distance, noise (pg. 75)
- Packet tracer Demonstration
  - https://www.netacad.com/campaign/ptdt-4
- Ethernet Basics
- OSI Model
 
- Packets
  - Inroduce Wireshark
  - Talk about whats in a packet
  - Crafting our own packets
  
Activities
- Show network mapping tool
- Cable demonstration
- Download Packet Tracer and build a simple network
- Talk about wireshark
